1. What do you mean by Linux? Explain its features?

  Linux is a Unix-like open-source computer operating system (OS) that directly manages hardware and resources of a system such as CPU, 
  memory, and storage, and manages the communication between software and hardware.It is freely distributable and is generally built around 
  Linux Kernel (low-level system software that is used to manage hardware resources for users). Furthermore, it can be installed in mobiles, 
  laptops, computers, notebooks, etc. Flavors of Linux OS include Ubuntu, Debian, SUSE Linux, Gentoo, etc.
    Some important features of Linux OS include: 
      -> Free and Open Source: It is freely and easily available to anyone.
      -> Robust and Adaptable: Linux can operate for prolonged periods without crashing and considered to have very much immune to security threats.
      -> More secure: It is more secure as it provides security using authentication features like password authentication, 
          security auditing, and file system access control.
      -> Multiprogramming System: More than one can function or an application can run simultaneously.
      -> Application Support: It has its own software repository i.e., place or storage location from where software can be retrieved 
          so that users can download and install applications.
      -> Supports customized keywords: There are many different languages used throughout the world, therefore Linux supports the 
          installation of multiple languages keyboards.
      -> GUI (Graphical User Interface): It provides an interface for users to interact with the system and allows to use of GUI 
          applications such as VLC, Firefox, etc.

2. What are basic elements or components of Linux?

   -> Kernel: It is considered a core or main part of Linux and is generally responsible for all major activities of OS such as 
            process management, device management, etc.  
   -> System Library: These are special functions or programs with the help of which application programs or system utilities can 
              access features of the kernel without any requirement of code. It is simply used to implement the functionality of the OS.
   -> System Utility: These are utility programs that are responsible to perform specialized and individual-level tasks. 
            They are considered more liable and allow users to manage the computer. 
   -> Hardware: It is physical hardware that includes items such as a mouse, keyboard, display, CPU, etc. 
   -> Shell: It is an environment in which we can run our commands, shell scripts, and programs. It is an interface between 
              user and kernel that hides all complexities of functions of the kernel from the user. It is used to execute commands.

3. What is Kernel? Explain its functions.

    A kernel is considered the main component of Linux OS. It is simply a resource manager that acts as a bridge between 
    hardware and software. Its main role is to manage hardware resources for users and is generally used to provide an interface 
    for user-level interaction. A kernel is the first program that is loaded whenever a computer system starts. It is also referred
    to as low-level system software.
      ->Its other main functions include: 

          Memory Management
          Process Management
          Device Management
          Storage Management
          Manage access, and use of various peripherals that are connected to the computer.
4. What is LILO?

    LILO (Linux Loader) is basically a bootloader for Linux that is used to load Linux into memory and start the OS. 
    It is also known as a boot manager that facilitates a dual boot of a computer. It can function as either a master 
    boot program or secondary boot program and performs various functions such as locating kernel, identifying other supporting programs,
    loading memory, and starting the kernel. If you want to use Linux OS, then you need to install a special bootloader
    i.e., LILO for it as it allows fast boot of Linux OS.

5. What is swap space?

    Swap space, as the name suggests, is basically a space on a hard disk that is used when the amount of
    physical memory or RAM is full. It is considered a substitute for physical memory. Its main function is to
    substitute disk space for RAM memory when real RAM does not have enough space to hold all programs that are executing, 
    and more space is required. In simple words, it can be used as an extension of RAM by Linux.

6.  What do you mean by a Process States in Linux?

    Linux Process is a type of process that can be in a number of different states. The process enters these states from start till end.
    Process states in Linux are as follows: 
     -> New/Ready: In this state, a new process is created and is ready to run.
     -> Running: In this state, the process is being executed.
     -> Blocked/Wait: In this state, the process is waiting for input from the user and if doesn't have resources to run such as memory, 
        file locks, input, then it can remain in a waiting or blocked state.
     -> Terminated/Completed: In this state, the process has completed the execution or terminated by the OS.
     -> Zombie: In this state, the process is terminated but information regarding the process still exists and is available
          in the process table.

7. Name different types of modes used in VI editor.

    Command Mode/Regular Mode: It is the default mode for the vi editors. It is generally used to type commands that usually
                                perform particular or specific vi functions. To enter this mode from another mode (Insert mode),
                                one must press [esc]. In simple words, it lets you view the content.  
    Insertion Mode/Edit Mode: This mode allows you to do text editing, or type text into a file. To enter this mode from another mode
                              (command mode), one must press [esc]. In simple words, it lets you delete or insert text or content. 
    Ex Mode/Replacement Mode: This mode is generally used to save the files and execution of the commands. It basically executes
                                files with different parameters. To enter this mode, one must press [:]. In simple words, it lets 
                                you overwrite content or text.

8. The maximum length for a filename under Linux is 255 bytes.
9. Linux that is specially designed by Sun micro system is Solaris.
10. The typical size for a swap partition under a Linux system should be twice the amount of physical memory or RAM available on the system.
11. File that is used to automatically mount file systems is a " Fstab file ".

12. What is LVM and why is it required?

    LVM (Logical Volume Management) is basically a tool that provides logical volume management for the Linux kernel.
    It is being introduced simply to make physical storage device management easier. It also includes allocating disks, striping,
    mirroring, resizing logical volumes. Its main advantages are increased abstraction, flexibility, and control. It simply allows
    for flexible disk space management. It is especially required to resize the size of the file system online. In Linux, 
    the size of the LVM partition can be extended using “lvextend” command and can be reduced using “lvreduce” commands, respectively. 

LVM Layers -> Hard Disk has some partiotions -> Partitions Mapped to Physical Volume -> Physical Volume belongs to Volume Group 
              Volume Group belongs to -> Logical Volume

13. What is a “/proc” file system?

    Proc file system is a pseudo or virtual file system that provides an interface to the kernel data structure. 
    It generally includes useful information about processes that are running currently. It can also be used to change 
    some kernel parameters at runtime or during execution. It is also regarded as a control and information center for the kernel. 
    All files under this directory are named virtual files.

14. What do you mean by the daemons?

    Daemons also referred to as the background process, is a long-running Linux program that runs in the background. 
    They do not have any controlling terminal, therefore, they run in the background. These are the processes that are generally 
    started when the system is bootstrapped and terminate or end only when the system is shut down. It is simply the way of extending 
    the functionality of the base OS. It provides and offers several functions that are not available in OS." Its main purpose is to 
    handle periodic requests and then forward the requests to the appropriate programs for execution ."

15. The daemon that controls that print spooling process is the Line printing daemon.

16. What is the difference between cron and anacron?

    Cron: It is a program in Linux that is used to execute tasks at a scheduled time. It works effectively on machines that
          run continuously. It expects the system to run 24*7. Its minimum granularity is in minutes. 	

    Anacron: It is a program in Linux that is used to execute tasks at certain intervals. It works effectively on machines that
              are powered off in a day or week.It does not expect the system to run 24*7. Its minimum granularity only on days.

17. What is load average in Linux?

      Load average, as the name suggests, is the average system load on Linux servers being calculated over a given period of time.
      The load average of Linux servers can be found using “top” and “uptime” commands. It is simply used to keep track of system
      resources. It is represented by a decimal number starting at 0.00.  It tells you the load that the system has been under.

18. INODE: It is a unique name given to each file by OS. Each inode has a unique inode number within a file system.
           It stores various information about files in Linux such as ownership, file size, file type, access mode, number of links, etc.

19. The first process started by the kernel in Linux is “init” and its process id is 1.


**** LINUX NETWORKING ****









  
